# Fabrication: JLC PCB

The basic usage of this exporter is:
```
kikit fab jlcpcb [OPTIONS] BOARD OUTPUTDIR
```

When you run this command, you will find file `gerbers.zip` in `OUTPUTDIR`. This
file can be directly uploaded to JLC PCB site. KiKit automatically detects the
number of layers.

## Assembly

If you would also like to use the SMD assembly service, you have to specify
`--assembly` option and also provide the board `--schematic <schematics_file>`.
KiKit will generate two extra files: `bom.csv` (bill of materials) and `pos.csv`
(component placement). Use these two files when ordering the PCB assembly.

The files above will include all components on the board. You can override the
default field name with option `--field`. This option accepts a comma separated
list of names. The first found field is used. This can be used, e.g., for
configuration of the board via resistors. You can put field "LCSC" for all
components, then add fields "CFG1_LCSC" and "CFG2_LCSC" for some components.
Then invoke KiKit with option `--field CFG1_LCSC,LCSC` for configuration 1 or
`--field CFG2_LCSC,LCSC` for configuration 2.

You can exclude some of the components by specifying `--ignore <comma separated
list of references>`. By default, KiKit will export only components with SMD
footprints (see footprint properties in the footprint editor). You can override
this by specifying `--forceSMD`: KiKit will then include all components that
have only SMD pins and will ignore the footprint flag. Also, if a component
misses the order code field, KiKit will show warning. When you pass option
`--missingError`, KiKit will fail when there is a component with missing order
code. This might be useful in case when you run KiKit in CI and you want to fail
the build.

Note that when you order SMD assembly for a panel, you should specify panelized
board and the original schematics of a single board.

## Correction of the Footprint Position

It is possible that orientation footprints in your SMD does not match the
orientation of the components in the SMD assembly service. There are two
solutions:

- correct the orientation in the library or
- apply KiKit's orientation corrections.

The first option is not always feasible - e.g., when you use KiCAD's built-in
libraries or you are preparing a board for multiple fabrication houses and each
of them uses a different orientation.

KiKit allows you to specify the origin and orientation correction of the
position. The correction is specified by `JLCPCB_CORRECTION` field. The field
value is a semicolon separated tuple: `<X>; <Y>; <Rotation>` with values in
millimeters and degrees. You can read the XY corrections by hovering cursor over
the intended origin in footprint editor and mark the coordinates. Note that
first the rotation correction is applied, then the translation. Usually, you
will need only the rotation correction.

## Using Corrections to Configure Jumpers

If your board features solder jumpers you can use the corrections to specify
their default value. The solder jumper should be designed such it can fit a zero
Ohm resistor in suitable size. Then specify an order code of the zero Ohm
resistor for the jumper and adjust correction so it fits the default position.

Note that you can specify multiple correction fields by `--corrections <comma
separated list of correction filed names>`. The first found correction field is
used. This allows you to keep several configuration of the solder jumpers in
your design e.g., in fields `JLCPCB_CORRECTION_CFG_1` and
`JLCPCB_CORRECTION_CFG_2`. Then you can simply change the board configuration by
calling kikit with `--corrections JLCPCB_CORRECTION_CFG_1,JLCPCB_CORRECTION` or
`--corrections JLCPCB_CORRECTION_CFG_2,JLCPCB_CORRECTION`.



